# Create VPC using cfn template and command line 
li_cmd.txt , instructions 
create-vpc-ec2-cnf.yaml , template 

# output summary

Description of Resources Created
VPC
VPC
VPC is defined with CidrBlock 10.0.0.0/16.
DnsHostnames is set to 'true' to get public DNS hostname.

Subnets : a private and a public subnet is defined in each Availability Zone.
Public Subnet 1 - in Availability Zone 1 with CidrBlock 10.0.1.0/24.
Public Subnet 2 - in Availability Zone 2 with CidrBlock 10.0.3.0/24.
Private Subnet 1 - in Availability Zone 1 with CidrBlock 10.0.2.0/24.
Private Subnet 2 - in Availability Zone 2 with CidrBlock 10.0.4.0/24.
 
Internet Gateway  
It provides a target for internet-routable traffic in your route tables.
Route tables refer Internet Gateway as target for Destination.

Route Tables 
Public Route Table : routes traffic either to Internet Gateway for outbounds or within 10.0.0.0/16. Public subnets in two Availability  Zones are associated  with the public route table.

Private Route Table : routes traffic only within 10.0.0.0/16. Private subnets are associated  with private route table.

EC2
EC2 Instances
Two EC2 Instances are defined in public subnet with user data to install Apache web server.
The Instances have a reference to  EC2 Security  group and KeyPair.

Security Groups: 
EC2 Security Group : Port 22 for SSH and Port 80 open to the Load Balancer.

ELB Security Group :  Port 80 open to everyone.

Application  Load Balancer : Load balancer is defined with Listener, target group and references ELB security group.
Listener : The Listener is set with port 80 and protocol HTTP. The Listener forwards the traffic  to targets in target group.

Target Group : One target group is defined with two EC2 Instances as targets. Health Check port is set to 80.

Deploying CloudFormation Template
Click on 'Create stack' in CloudFormation console. Choose 'Template is ready' and Specify the Template either through S3 URL or by directly  uploading file. Click next to proceed further.

Enter a name for stack to association with the resources created. Choose a keypair and enter a description  for Security  Group in the Parameters Section. Continue choosing next and click on 'Create Stack' .

Creating Stack may take several minutes  to launch all the resources  with their dependencies. Deleting  a Stack deletes all the resources associated with the stack.

Template Design
This is the template design automatically generated by CloudFormation based on the YAML file. This Design shows the defined resources and their dependencies.

Summary
We have successfully  created VPC with EC2 Instances and Application Load Balancer using CloudFormation Template. CloudFormation is an easy way to create required resources  and manage them in an orderly  and easy manner. CloudFormation is a great way to represent architecture as code in your repository, which can be reused and controlled.